# DSDP_Project1
This is the initial phase of the International Travel and Tourism reform project in partnership with the Office for National Statistics (ONS), under the Data Scientist Development Programme (DSDP) at Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA). It aims to replace the International Passenger Survey (IPS) with non-survey data sources using machine learning and statistical methods.

The International Passenger Survey (IPS) is a detailed survey conducted annually by the ONS to estimate the total inflow and outflow of tourists in the UK, and this data is used to generate tourism statistics and estimate the revenue generated by tourism in the UK. However, this survey is time and effort-consuming due to its detailed nature and incurs huge costs. To generate the same information and statistics more efficiently, a solution to replace the IPS is proposed. This involves collecting the same information that the IPS does, such as expenditure, duration of stay, purpose of visit, nationality, towns visited, type of accommodation and so on, from other data sources such as Mastercard transactions or AirBnB data, to name a few.

A thorough exploration of the existing data from the IPS surveys is required to facilitate this. The main focus of this project is to estimate the purpose of the visit from other parameters like expenditure and nationality, as this particular information is difficult to obtain from existing alternative data sources. A conceptual framework is constructed where the interaction of a particular set of variables can predict the purpose of the visit with reasonable accuracy. This repository only deals with exploring the data and the prediction of statistics as a temporary stand-in for the IPS.
